---
layout: post
title: 2019 in Review
date: 2019-12-31 22:00
comments: true
categories: []
---

Traveled a lot. Got a bike. Saved a bit. Lived in a new apartment.

## Travels

I visited six new countries. Because I spent most of my vacation days in Japan, each of the other trips was two or three nights.

- January: Japan
- March: Budapest, Hungary
- April: Athens, Greece
- April: Wrocław, Poland
- June: Prague, Czech Republic
- August: Brussels and Bruges, Belgium
- September: Munich, Germany
- October: Dubrovnik, Croatia
- November: Japan

## Bike

I bought a bike at Decathlon in June and had a lot of fun with it. I used it to commute and made day trips to around Berlin. [Blankenfelde](https://goo.gl/maps/F9TjZxxLNSPZKSDV6) is my favorite so far. I can't wait for the next Spring.

## Budgeting

I started using [YNAB](https://www.youneedabudget.com/) at the end of the last year because a few of my friends were using it. I have used it through the year, and it's the first budgeting system that worked well for me. It helps us traveling regularly while saving money.

## Books

I bought 55 physical books and 5 ebooks. That's more than three times of the last year, probably because of a dedicated budget for buying books.

I finished reading 14 books and stranded somewhere in the middle of many books. _Quiet_ made me more introverted and now I spend more time at home. _Bad Blood_ and _Educated_ blew my mind.

## Food

Unagi. The raw tartar in Prague. Oysters and mussels and golden ale in Bruges.
Anago.

## Drink

The best beer in 2019 was a porter at [Kontynuacja](https://goo.gl/maps/9X7UMJnqB1MrzqJcA) in Wrocław, Poland. The city had high quality craft beers, and everything that I drank was amazing.

I had a chance to meet one of the my most favorite brewers, Fuerst Wiacek, at a tap takeover event at Biererei Bar. I bought a T-shirt.

The trip to Brussels was epic as well because I visited a traditional lambic brewery where they still brew beer with yeasts in the air of the building! After tasting sour lambic, I bought a T-shirt there too.

In spite of the encounters with good beers, I don't drink as much as I used to. After I started commuting by bike, I didn't want to get drunk and ride a bike. Even after I stopped commuting with my bike in the winter, the momentum kept going. I drank almost every day in Japan as an exception, but I almost quit drinking again after coming back to Berlin.

On the other hand, I started drinking bubble tea regularly. There is a [Comebuy](http://www.comebuy2002.de/) shop near my office. I tried several bubble tea shops in Tokyo, and found that only one of them was better than Comebuy.

## Work

I am still working at the same team in Zalando. I looked for new opportunities inside and outside the company but decided to stay.

My team and I started on-call duties. Before that, my team's applications had been taken care by another on-call team, and we tried to make sure that they didn't get called. Out focus on reliability hasn't changed much, but being on-call triggered new learnings. Writing post-mortem documents is my new favorite activity.

I started interviewing regularly, mostly on coding. I'm still not used to it, and there's more to learn.

## Side Projects

In the first half or the year, I wrote [a small metrics utility](https://github.com/shuhei/rolling-window) for work and [a toy interpreter and compiler in Rust](/blog/2019/10/06/interpreter-and-compiler-in-rust/) for fun. In the last half, I spent time learning algorithms on LeetCode and books.

## Conferences & Meetups

I attended two conferences, JSConf EU and JSConf JP, and spoke at a meetup.

## 2020

2020 is a new decade!
