---
layout: post
title: 2019 in Review
date: 2019-12-22 23:14
comments: true
categories: []
---

Traveled a lot. Got a bike. Saved a bit. Lived in a new apartment.

## Travels

I visited six new countries. Because I spent most of my vacation days in Japan, each of the other trips was two or three nights.

- January: Japan
- March: Budapest, Hungary
- April: Athens, Greece
- April: Wrocław, Poland
- June: Prague, Czech Republic
- August: Brussels and Bruges, Belgium
- September: Munich, Germany
- October: Dubrovnik, Croatia
- November: Japan

## Bike

I bought a bike at Decathlon in June. I used it to commute and ride around the city.

Day trips to Eberswalde and Blankenfelde.

## Budgeting

I started using YNAB at the end of the last year. I have used it through the year, and it's the first budgeting system that worked well for me.

## Books

I bought 55 paper books and 5 ebooks. That's more than three times of the last year. I allocated a budget to buy books every month.

I finished 14 books and stranded somewhere in the middle of many books.

Finished:

- Digital Gold: The Untold Story of Bitcoin
- Bad Blood
- Educated: A Memoir
- Writing an Interpreter in Go
- Writing a Compiler in Go
- Quiet
- Why We Sleep
- Think fast and slow
- Zero to One: Notes on Start Ups, or How to Build the Future
- High Output Management
- Measure What Matters: OKRs: The Simple Idea that Drives 10x Growth
- 芝園団地に住んでいます――住民の半分が外国人になったとき何が起きるか
- おしゃれ嫌い 私たちがユニクロを選ぶ本当の理由
- サカナとヤクザ　～暴力団の巨大資金源「密漁ビジネス」を追う～

Algorithms Illustrated

## Food

Unagi. The raw tartar in Prague. Oysters and mussels and golden ale in Bruges.
Anago.

## Drink

The best beer in 2019 was a porter that I had at ??? in Wrocław, Poland

I had a chance to meet one of the brewers of my favorite brewery, Fuerst Wiacek, at a tap takeover event at Biererei Bar. I bought a T-shirt. The trip to Brussels was epic because I visited a traditional lambic brewery where they still brew beer with yeasts in the air of the building! After tasting sour lambics, I bought a T-shirt there too.

In spite of encounters with good beers, I don't drink as much as I used. After started commuting by bike, I didn't want to get drunk and ride a bike. Even after I stopped commuting with my bike in the winter, but the momentum kept going. As an exception, I drank almost every day in Japan. But after coming back to Berlin, I almost quit drinking again.

On the other hand, I started drinking bubble tea regularly. There is a Comebuy shop near my office. I tried several bubble tea shops in Tokyo, and I found only one of them was better than Comebuy.

## Work

I am still working at the same team in Zalando. I looked for new opportunities inside and outside the company, but decided to stay. So, not much change.

I started on-call duties. Writing post mortem documents is my new favorite activity now.

Interviews, mostly coding. There are a lot to learn for it.

Architecture migration, web performance optimization.

## Side Projects

In the first half or the year, I wrote [a small metrics utility](https://github.com/shuhei/rolling-window) for work and [a toy interpreter and compiler in Rust](/blog/2019/10/06/interpreter-and-compiler-in-rust/) for fun.

Instead, I spent more time on learning algorithms on LeetCode and some books.

## Conferences

June: JSConf EU: Last one. Had a chance to talk to people whom I knew online.
JSConf JP
Had a chance to speak at a Meetup in June.

## 2020

2020 is a new decade!
